And everyone.
Last time we left this problem on the simple thing that.
We were able to count ordered.
It was very simple or an ordered said.
We derive this a normal reconciliation, which is if I take a minimum that okay, now tell me how many,
you know, how many we like in partition and if the minimum element in the partition is this man made.
So that was what we store.
And then we I also saw this old episode edition online and I just wanted to know how or why is this
working right?
Because there was no explanation.
But now I have figured out that how or why is it working?
And from starting from here, you reaching here.
Is a very tricky process, right?
So just watch this video, their own risk.
But if you do watch this video, you'll realize one thing that.
Dynamic Programming release.
Dynamic programming state is the same, but the recurrence relation is different.
Eight to having a different record.
A different record in relation will give me the same answer.
Eight So let me repeat this fact.
Initially what we heard is we had this.
Oh, yeah, let's go back.
You put this one eight and you count unordered.
What I did was let me quickly.
I did.
We just did nothing.
But we set up a minimum comma and is what?
The number of ways of partitioning in such that minimum element is.
Minimum element.
It's men.
Made to the minimum element.
It should be meant.
8 million element is not actually mean.
The minimum.
Yeah.
Now what I have is I have a very.
The American installation made and this installation sees that the number of partitions.
Okay.
So before moving forward, let me just quickly write this whole relation.
The current solution that we got in was equals to let get let's get back here.
It was it goes to count and ordered, which is again.
Commissioner D.P..
I.e. coma and minus, i.e. and various i.e. goes from doing.
And how did we reach to this reconciliation?
We said it if minimum is.
Yeah.
So we said that the minimum element is midnight.
So this will be a little off.
We are we explained this the correct way would be that number of partitions such that the minimum element
is at least min.
What is the difference between the previous thing that I wrote and this, the explanation, the definition?
This state is very similar.
We are not saying that the minimum element will be one.
If minimum is one, we are saying that can be at least one.
That means the minimum element will be greater than or equal to one.
So that's why we were getting the final answers here.
So what is of one eye when I means the number of ways of partitioning, i.e. such that the minimum element
is at least one made.
So minimum element can be either itself eight or I minus one, or I managed to.
It can be one also.
But I'm not saying that a minimum element is one is at least one.
Good.
I you saw the difference and this is the new yeah.
This is the resolution that we already quoted a different count and ordered.
I'm and in my Nissan, we are going to learn.
Right.
So how did we derive that?
We simply said that DP min and is equal to.
Yeah.
So what all options do ahead?
And the the minimum number can be min so it can be and minus min.
Yeah.
So that's what, that's what's happening here.
It can be then and minus min like figured out the number of years of dividing and minus minimum and
minimum +18.
That's what is happening in this is a recursive relation over here.
Well that now the minimum element is I and I've already taken into consideration but now figure out
what is what is the what are the partition numbers for the other relation.
And we saw that this took eight.
But now what I'll do is I'll have a different recursive relation, but this seems to it.
Let's just assume we have deep min and eight and.
I believe what we were doing is that we were running and i.e. from end to end we are saying that, okay,
now tell me the answer.
If I is the new man.
That means they are telling me number two is of partitioning and minus eight if I is the minimum element
eight.
But now what I will do is I will not say if I is the minimum, I will see that.
And just divided into two parts.
I did.
Yeah.
I just simply say I just decided to do a little part and I just see that DP Many.
Minion is nothing but if m.n..
It's taken as the minimum element or if mean is not taken as the minimum.
I mean, it's not considered.
Minimum element.
Just trying to understand this part is very important.
But instead of saying other meanings, there are men plus one woman plus three.
So on Dillon, they two basic ladies.
Men, men plus one.
I mean, plus two.
And so until and I'm saying this is minimum all this is minimum or this is minimum.
So until and I'm just saying now or when you recursively say I'm just saying and then mine is the new.
Minister Green as the new minimum element or it is not taken as the new minimum element.
Basically, I'm dividing it into two parts.
No issue of dividing into mean to but eight so that it is taken as minimum or it is not taken as.
But tell me if this value min is taken as the minimum element, then what should be my recursive relation?
It is the minimum element and I am considering it as the minimum element.
I know that means I'm actually using it.
So my state will just depend on the lookup yet if I'm using this min.
Then the next menu element can also be mean and.
I'm using them in.
That means Minister Garnier so the number and will now be and minus when.
I hope you're getting this, which is nothing.
But it says that if I'm considering mine, that means if it is taken into consideration, that means
this first case.
That means d b I got mine minus r u where I is equal to men.
Eight.
In the above case, a two wheeler deep in min gomer and minus mint a that is considered min as the value
and and minus will be the remaining partition that we want.
Secondly, moving on to the second part, which is if it's not considered as the minimum element, that
means all these other cases combined mean is not considered as the minimum element.
Then what will be considered as the minimum element mean plus one?
So we can simply say that if main plus one is considered as the minimum element and Andrew means as
it is.
So the first case is if mean is taken and the second cases if Min is not taken.
That's why I'm not subjecting anything from it and remains as it is.
And tell me the answer if min is not taken, if it is not considered as the minimum element.
So this is a new recursive relations to what I'll simply say.
I had implicitly been in coma and is equals to the P.
Men, comma and minus men, less BP men plus one comma.
And that I know what we're doing is we have the same state, but we have different ways of.
Making the recurrence relation the status seem, but base of making the recurrence relation is different.
Good.
So now what we have got is we have nothing.
And is the p.
I mean this if you can.
It's very simple because of relation.
So added we are moving one step ahead.
We are seeing we are not taking mean or we are taking mean.
I just two options not taking min taking eight.
So here we're taking min.
Here we're not taking full.
So now what?
Yeah.
So now let's do one thing.
Let's quickly code this.
And then what we'll do is we'll just.
I also feel that and show you how it's looking so that I know, of course you can see that if I convert
I mean, if I convert this deep into ions, I can simply say BPI equals to DP, i.e. comma d minus I
and the less.
If B I plus one comma.
Yeah, right.
So if I were converting all of this into challenges.
Yep.
So now you can easily, like, see the decade's evolution here, which is.
In terms of changes, will it mean quickly?
Could it exceed our second approach rate?
And let's see if it works or not?
Well, firstly, what I'll do is I'll just simply comment this solution rate.
No, I mean, you don't.
And we will have and and will have this, which is count on ordered.
Right.
So it just let's just you name it two and this will be meaning is nothing but.
This is on the move this far.
Look.
Eight.
So your answer is equals to nothing.
Where DP?
Min bama and minus min that we saw plus.
Min plus 1ap min plus one gamma and other min is increasing or and is decreasing rate and here will
simply run the answer relative of one more base case.
So we know that end is decreasing and min is increasing.
So if minimum this value if minimum is greater than eight, so whatever if minimum is greater than and
then the answer is not possible, we understand zero.
Of course, if the minimum value is greater than in the number that has to be partitioned, it's not
possible late.
We will simply add it n0 because that's not a particular.
But they'd be born.
And can there be any other basis?
Yeah.
What if.
If minimum is equal to in.
If minimum is equal to end, that means it's in the number is five in the minimum elements.
That means there's only one possible way which is five.
It'd simply return one eight between builders ones and limit cigarettes, giving us the correct output
or not bound on ordered.
So minimum will be one and we'll have this.
I only issue.
Let me copy this.
And let's call it who?
I wouldn't memorize it right now.
You can memorize it, but let me.
I'm just.
I just want to quickly check.
Sorry.
Deep.
We stayed here.
Featured here.
So what is our reward?
We got one.
One, two, two, one, one, two, three, five, seven.
So you can see that this above approach is also giving us the right answer.
And this lure approach and this second approach that we discussed today is also giving us the exact
same answer.
This is the only difference between both these approaches is that I'm using a forward look inside a
2D DP function, but here I'm not using any of the four loops.
I'm just having a 2D function and it is calling two times eight.
So inside the workings of one only.
But here the work was off.
And if I memorize it.
If I.
If I memorize it, then what will be the complexity of this function?
It will be off and into an woven square from woven q.
We have these.
Off end square state by just reducing the number of calls that we are going to make.
Basically, this is what is called optimal substructure.
Of course, this was also a good substructure.
It was also giving us a right answer.
But this was not an optimal substructure.
But this is an optimal substructure.
Eight Optimal means not less, not more.
And I think this is just a perfect substructure.
So let's do one thing.
Let's just fill out the table.
According to this technical translation that we have got, this debate that goes for debate committee,
A-minus, A-plus.
DP, A-plus, one committee vote.
So let me insert a table.
That's seven across seven people.
Okay.
And you give me 1/2.
It.
Me?
Yeah.
And let me date the values, you know, one, two, 34560123, four, five, six.
Now, you all know that what's happening in jeopardy.
So let's say if I'm worried about this.
Eight This is three coma for this is dependent on DP.
I go, madam, I do I go margin minus eight, which is.
The Goma, four minus three is one.
Plus you'd be A-plus, Wendy, which is Barack Obama.
What that means the next.
Well, here and.
The coma, one which is decent.
So it is only dependent on these two sales.
As you can see for any sale, I want to sell it from the left and I want to sell from you, don't I?
That means I can start filling this up.
I can start filling this table from down.
So what I will do is I'll try to I just start filling this table from here.
I just go this way and then I'll go this way because you are not ready to fill this.
I want the value of this.
That's where these in order that I need to follow to fill this table.
Well, and why am I feeling left when I am not going right?
Because for any of the value I want the previous value in the same group.
That's why I'm going left and I'm going up so that we have good values computing.
Good.
I'm feeling this all because I want you to replace one thing.
And yeah.
So here what we have is we have six and.
Okay, what were the base cases?
The base case is simple and it goes to zero return one.
So what is and easy is is mean and and is the right.
That's what I have replaced.
If an is equal to zero and when that means and is there indeed zero return when that means the first
column will be one.
So I'm just filling it like base cases.
And the second is if my new English 200 and where it is minimum equals two in so many ways i n and is
d so if I is equals to the written one eight, let me fill that as well.
Yeah, it should be this one.
But now let's just fill this last straw.
What is the value of this?
It is six comma one needs according to this reconciliation.
Don't forget, I'm just filling this table by this reconciliation.
So, four, six, comma, one.
What I need.
I need six comma.
Um.
Okay.
So this accounting also, if minimum is greater, then and then zero.
That means if I is greater than g i le10 zero.
That means.
If the raw number is greater than the column number, I just returned zero.
Right.
So this should be zero zero because six comma two is greater than
00000000000008.
I add all these zeros because of this condition that I use greater than it, then it is simple zero,
right?
Because we all know that if the minimum element greater than the answer is not possible.
Now we are just worried about this.
Six.
Six, comma six.
So we know six.
CUOMO Six is one because of this case, which is the base case.
Anyone's equals when there's only one way.
Now, let's talk about this cell, which is five, comma, five.
What if I go a five again?
The so would be one because it's a base case.
What about cell five?
Commerce six, five, five, comma six.
Depends on its cosmetics.
Firstly, let me write.
Five Coma six depends on how you go.
Margin minus one, which is five comma.
D-minus.
What is D-minus?
I in this case, x minus five, which is fine.
So it depends on five comma one, which is zero.
We can see five going when is zero less epa plus one g.
Which is nothing but.
Six.
Coma six.
So here we have one plus zero.
That means these two cells, right?
Six coma, six and five coma, zero five coma when it is zero plus one.
And this will give me.
When similarly, let's talk about this, which is working on this case now.
What about for them?
If I would come off, I was dependent on we all know when one settled down, which is five, comma,
five.
But.
Yeah.
Five Goma, five and four Goma five.
Those are dependent on four.
Goma, five minus four, which is one which is for Goma one.
Four coma, five minus one, one one up for coma, five minus four, which is almost eight.
So it is zero plus.
Yeah.
Let me quickly write it completely for my fave is four comma.
Five minus four comma went to volume of one is zero and a down is one, so I'll have total one.
Let's talk about this, which is four games.
Six for games six is dependent on four comma, two plus are this by comma six.
Eight before two is again zero and five sixes 182.
Right now what we can see that actually everything is being filled as according to one, but we'll see
that there will be some changing rate.
So let me yeah.
Let's get on with this.
Trigonometry is when we know what about become a43 comma four is.
You're down one +18.
So it will be one.
What about three, comma?
Five.
It is one plus three.
Comma two.
Again, one word about three.
Comma six.
It is one plus three to be.
Now we see that I have a two over here.
I hope you're getting this right now.
What's the next rule?
The next Ruiz is zero.
And let me just quickly fill this now.
It will be.
One here, Tacoma two and now Tacoma trees 1 to 0.
Or to come for this one plus one.
Now this will be again, one plus one.
And this will be two plus two for.
Right.
Finally, let's fill this table, because you know that this is the final answer that we need, because
we we are just bringing answers for one committee.
This is the room that we need.
One committee.
So, you know, one Goma.
One is fine.
What about one Goma two?
It is nothing but this plus this eight, which is two, then this plus this is three.
This plus this is five.
This visit is a seven.
And this place, this is 11, as you can easily see that.
Yeah.
Let me circle it.
One line to the five seven.
LEMON So I'm just I'm just here just, you know, filling up a table.
And you can see we are getting the.
Um.
Acquired cities that we want.
We are getting the cities that we want to.
Well, if we are getting the cities that we want, then.
It has to be a good act because of religion right now.
What is the only thing that I want?
I wanted to actually make you realize so that we can reach the second solution that we discussed.
It is.
The whole table here is not needed.
I just.
Just think about this.
The whole table is not needed.
Let me quickly make this.
Yeah.
So this is.
You know, they fought and he said, what I want.
I want something on the left of it.
It means team ruin live and I want this, which is just down of it.
We saw this is just a down sell and this is the sale on the left of it in the same row.
So let me initially fill this with 100000 and one.
Well now.
Instead of, you know, having a second row instead of moving upwards, what I'll do is I'll keep on
updating the values here only you know right.
That we need ACL which is down that means I plus one gamma.
So what I'm doing instead of having another row for I plus one comedy, I keep on updating in the same
rule.
If I keep on updating in this one particular row, I'll be saving memory.
Right.
But I'll not be saving time.
But I'll be saving memory here.
Right?
Because instead of making a whole table where I'm doing it, I'm updating the values in the same row,
because for any value that's needs to be calculated, I actually need this value also.
So.
So you will realize this.
Let me quickly.
Then things here, right?
So now let's say we are on the fifth row.
That means currently I'm on the fifth row.
So what what will happen in the fifth row?
Initially, all the values will be zero, which is this deep.
Plus, when doing all this and starting from five comma five where delegate I get it is equal to one.
And then five, comma six will be equal to the union eight that five Goma six will be equal to six.
Goma six less.
Five comma one eight.
So where is the six common six value?
It is already here today time not you know, keeping something extra to copy the data when the value
is already there.
I will not consider this now.
I just simply add this part and just simply add what's behind it.
So instead of.
Having instead of, you know, finding this value.
This value is already present on this particular cell because I'm just updating that sale again and
again.
It's what is five comma six.
It is it is plus equals to 5 million.
What is five moment zero.
So that's the value here will be one eight.
And yeah, now let's see, I'm on the fourth row, so let's iterate over this row again.
So if I'm the fourth row again, the DBA values will be DPA comma ise for right.
So it will be four, comma D minus four plus the other values.
So we know that on four, comma, four, let me write it out.
One, two, three, four, five, six, one, four, comma for the values will be one.
Then on four, comma, five, the values descriptor five, it's already here eight and plus what will
plus will plus for my one, which is zero.
So again one similarly for a46 we want to do that five common six which is already here because earlier
it was five commits, it was a five through only eight and the value and similarly what I'll do now
let's add I need for the third row what I do again what will happen.
This will be equal to one.
Right.
And this will be 1 to 0.
This will be one plus, again, the zero.
That means this will take this.
This will take this.
But when this will take.
Yeah.
Daddy, Goldman Sachs will take.
Trigonometric trigonometry is.
So here what I I'll get I'll get plus one because you can see the one.
He was already there.
I'm adding one to it.
If I'm adding one to it, let me quickly add one to it and it will become two.
I hope we're getting the point right.
The point is very simple.
Instead of having a whole day, it why don't I just keep one room and keep on updating that rule as
I'm going up, but I'm going upwards for all these rules and I'm continuously just updating one particular
rule that I have kept, because that rule is actually representing the next.
But those are the values that I need.
So just to see if this thing, which is I wonder if I need the next value in the same column.
Why don't I just overwrite?
This value.
So that's that's what it's time to see again what I lose I'll simply overate again in this little I
am one, two and I overate.
I ultimately get this.
Then I look at it and simply get this answer here.
What we can see is so here.
I hope you all are realizing that right now we don't have.
Do the people right.
Look, this can easily be maintained by only one table of.
Of Lent volumes rate to how many columns and columns vacancy rate, which is DPD eight.
So what will be the reconciliation here?
I will start from in and I will go till one eight.
So we are moving backwards and they will start from.
One and will go down.
And so I'm moving backwards and I'm moving right.
Which is well, the DVD is nothing but.
The.
Less AP.
D-minus.
I we know that deep values already kept there because we are overrating things.
It will be.
Just what we'll do is we'll just add on top of the B, they will just add DB minus A and that's exactly
what is happening.
In the second solution.
So I already warned you that this might be a long way to go because it took.
It took it to go to different places.
Here you can see that deep down, I think.
But it is Plexiglas, really big minus.
And that's exactly what we are doing.
They just.
When?
Mishap here, and that is nothing.
But it's very simple that I'm running away from and one and different one doing it.
But in this solution, eyes only from one doing.
And I'm running into one.
Just because that I have taken.
Okay.
Before moving forward, I just want to make sure that this part should be very clear that how is this
deep D-minus I coming?
How is this deep, deep classic?
What should we be doing minus I coming?
The second thing is that here the loops are from one to N and I doing eight.
And in that case the loops are running from end to end.
That means we are going moving backwards.
It's just that because of we have defined our reconciliation, which is the min common eight.
So I just I have a challenge for you basically not a challenge.
You can take it as an exercise or an assignment.
You find the status max command that max will be the maximum element.
Or.
Yeah.
Same thing here.
Number of a number of partitions often.
Let me try it.
Let's call it DP Max comma.
And it will be nothing but number of partitions such that.
Maximum element.
Is at most.
Max.
Okay.
So instead of mine, if we have Max, then what will happen are min plus one will be replaced to Max.
Minus one because you know.
Right.
And then I'll take Max on and not me.
If I'm not taking maximum, then I see.
If I'm not taking maximum, then it is maximum minus one eight.
So divide and into parts where Max is, it goes to Max minus four.
So in that case, what we'll have will have our max minus one.
And in that case, instead of 80 plus one, where we will have a minus one divided by minus one, that
means I'm depending not on the.
Below arrow, but on the above arrow.
If I'm depending on the above rule, then I'll have to fulfill the first road, then the green road
and her road, then Ford Road, then 50 through and then six.
And in that case, I would start from one point.
It is just that I mean both the things are seem that you run from and over and over and doing it just
that your.
Totally depends on whether you're taken maximum or minimum.
Depends on your state or the record installation will be more or less.
I hope this is also not very confusing.
This might be an advanced DP lecture, but I hope I made things clear and we all have understood that.
Why is this particular solution with all the major takeaways from this particular.
Lecture can be that of course, the reconciliation can be of course, the state of the deep can be seen,
but there can be multiple ways to call it a the reconciliation can be multiple or they will be exactly
one optimal recurrently.
Ooh.
Oh.
That was all from my own gaze.
I hope you enjoyed this.
Thank you.